If everyone can stand for the reading of the word, please.
We're going to be reading from Luke 6:17-26. I'll be reading from the New Revised Standard Version, and the words will be on the screen.
He came down with them and stood on a level place with a great crowd of his disciples.
and a great multitude of people from all Judea,
Jerusalem and the coast of Tyre and Sidon.
They have come to hear him and to be healed of their diseases.
And those who were troubled with unclean spirits were cured.
And everyone in the crowd was trying to touch him.
For power came out from him and healed all of them.
Thank you.
Then he looked up at his disciples and said,
2020. Blessed are you who are poor.
For yours is the kingdom of God.
Blessed are you who are hungry now.
For you will be filled.
Blessed are you who weep now, for you will laugh.
Blessed are you when people hate you,
And when they exclude you,
Revile you and defame you.
On account of the son of man.
Rejoice on that day.
And leap for joy.
For surely your reward is great in heaven.
For that is how their ancestors treated the prophets.
But woe to you who are rich.
For you have received your consolation.
Woe to you who are full now.
For you will be hungry.
Woe to you who are laughing now.
For you will mourn and weep.
Woe to you when all speak well of you.
For that is how their ancestors treated the false prophets.
The word of god for the people of god.
Thanks be to God. You may be seated.
This is the day that the Lord has made.
And we are rejoicing.
And being glad in it
I'm honored to be here. I'm here as preacher.
To affirm and support the respite and renewal of your pastors.
As they continually pour into you and others it's important to step back
And to get a refill.
So thank you all for supporting their time away.
Beloved there is
A word from the lord
let us pray and now Lord as I stand behind your sacred desk
Send tongues of fire to preach thy word. Come in thy people, bless.
Come give thy word success.
of spirit,
of holiness.
Honest the sin
And the people of God together sat.
Amen.
So once again,
We see
A growing lack of peace
In our world
And it is evident
In the many ways that the dignity of human life
Is threatened.
Instead of efforts to create and sustain human wholeness and well-being, there are ongoing efforts to destroy
human life.
And so as we confront a wide variety of threats to human dignity and well-being,
Too often our moral vision reflects
A division.
A lack of integrity that prevents us from working together to create a more compassionate, a more hospitable, a more holistic human society.
Society.
as christians we cannot shrink from the challenge to find the courage and the capacity to embrace god's prophetic.
Plan.
And we see from this passage which my sister read for your hearing that God's prophetic
Plan is even.
Even revealed.
In the Sermon on the Mount, the Beatitudes.
you know many scholars say that the Sermon on the Mount the beatitudes it really constitutes the essence of Christianity
Jesus's words get to the root of the human condition.
the sermon on the mount the beatitudes is a biblical collection of religious teachings and ethical sayings of jesus
the sermon was addressed to the disciples and a large crowd of listeners
To guide them in a life of discipline
Based on a new law of love even to enemies.
As opposed to the old law.
Of retribution.
So the focus of the sermon was how to live a life pleasing to God,
And the characteristics
Of a true
Christian disciple.
It served as a radical wake-up call, if you will, for Christians to live wholeheartedly for God through faith, not simply through external actions of keeping the law.
law.
For those weary of lies, Jesus spoke truth.
To the brokenhearted he offered comfort to the sick he offered
Healing,
To those bound, he offered liberation.
to the guilt ridden he offered forgiveness
He offered a fresh start and Jesus even offered his own life.
So let anyone put these beatitudes into practice in their own life,
And you too!
will draw down upon yourself the wrath
of the world.
Because the Sermon on the Mount.
cannot be separated from Jesus's crucifixion any more than day can be separated from night.
The day.
that our Lord
Came down from that mountain
and taught the Beatitudes, he signed his own death warrant.
the sound of the nails and the hammers digging through human flesh where the echoes stoned back from the mountainside where he told the crowd how to be happy
I'm happy. How to be blessed.
Now everyone wants to be happy but Jesus
Jesus's ways were very opposite of the ways of the world.
One way
To make enemies.
And antagonize people is to challenge the spirit of the world.
The world has a spirit as each age has a spirit
There are certain unanalyzed assumptions which govern the conduct of the world. Think about it. You only live once.
Get as much out of life as you can. Go ahead and do it. No one will ever know.
In the Beatitudes
The Lord takes those kinds of flimsy catchwords of the world
Like security
Revenge.
Laughter
Popularity, getting even, sexual freedom and arm, might and comfort, and he turns all of those words.
Up, side down.
Jesus says to those who say you cannot be happy unless you are rich Jesus says blessed are the poor in spirit
To those who say don't let them get away with that
Jesus says blessed are the patient
To those who say laugh and the world laughs with you jesus says blessed are those who mourn
To those who say God created sex, have a ball, get all you can. Jesus says, blessed.
Are the pure.
In hard.
Somehow, Jesus knew that all of the things in this world that you and I pursue, thinking these things will bring us joy and peace. Jesus warns us they will.
They will not.
because all the things that you gain in this life
They will give you mental disorders and unhappiness and false hopes, fears and anxiety.
So Jesus affirmed
that sins like selfishness and greed and political corruption they all come for you and i and these offenses
It says, Jesus.
result from our own will.
My friends.
Jesus is saying if you want to make enemies follow me
"followers of Jesus" means turning from sin.
renouncing violence, seeking justice, believing in the reconciling power of God, and living in the power of the Holy Spirit.
Jesus's ways liberate us.
From the conformity of the world and heals broken places, Jesus shines light on evil and restores all things. If you want to.
100% make enemies follow Jesus.
The Sermon on the Mount.
Is so much.
At variance with all that our world holds dear.
That the world will crucify and kill anyone who tries to live up to its values.
Because Jesus preached them.
He had.
To die.
This is an in your face, pull no punches, no holds barred, bare knuckle to salt on someone's reputation and authority.
This is a method and a message guaranteed to make enemies.
and we always remember that jesus admonished us to love our enemies because right after he gives the beat attitudes he goes into the realm of the world.
The relationship with your enemies love them
But Jesus never said don't make any enemies
In fact, Jesus is directed to love your enemy assumes that your enemies will come.
If you stand for something
Someone else will stand against you.
And that's okay because we who believe in freedom cannot rest until it comes.
If it weren't so, we could all lie down and relax. But this is not a time in our world to relax.
Jesus made enemies by revealing an unflattering truth to people in power, to people who were perfectly paused to cause him
Cause him great harm.
My friends, you must.
You must be okay with opposition.
You must be okay with ridicule. You must be okay with threats. You must be okay with being ostracized.
You must
Be okay.
With having enemies.
Because.
The danger of following Jesus
I've learned it'll change.
How you preach.
It'll change how you do your family devotions
It'll change how you treat and talk to your co-workers. It will change.
How you call people to respond to the call of Christ.
It is true.
it is true that Jesus is the treasure in the field that is worth more than anything else on this planet
And yes,
In order.
to have Jesus in order to obtain Jesus. You must.
Be willing.
To die.
And far too many are not willing
to consider the financial costs of following Jesus and they remain unwilling to consider the cost of the cross bearing in a depraved
Brave the world.
Before we stand before a church and invite people to follow Jesus, we should communicate to them the dangers of
Danger of what following Jesus means.
Being a follower of Jesus is not a safe choice.
but i understand from my ancestors that only what you do for christ will last
and besides.
If you are faithful, the word of God promises.
that I will make your enemies your footstool. That means that I'll spend all my time stomping them and kicking them out the way.
Beloved.
You want to make enemies you follow christ you want to make enemies you tell people the truth you want to make enemies don't be afraid to tell someone no
my friends
Only what you do for Christ will last
Therefore
I think we need to be on our way.
The word of God.
For the people of God.
Thanks, spy.
To God.